State of Profiling blog post (#5475)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/blog/2024/state-profiling.md

still in development and isn’t yet recommended for production use, the Profiling
SIG has made substantial progress on many fronts.

This post provides a summary of the progress the Profiling SIG has made over the
past six months.

## OTLP Improvements

Profiles were added as a new signal type to OTLP in
[v1.3.0](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/releases/tag/v1.3.0),
though this area is still marked as unstable as we continue to make changes to
it.

While our original intent was to keep wire compatibility with pprof, that goal
proved impractical, so the Profiling SIG
[has decided](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/issues/567#issuecomment-2286565449)
to refactor the protocol and not aim for strict compatibility with pprof.
Instead, we will aim for convertibility, similarly to what we already do for
other signals. This shift is still a work in progress, and is causing several
breaking changes to the profiling section of the protocol. Note that this has no
impact on the stable sections that make up the majority of the OTLP protocol,
like metrics, spans, logs, resources, etc..

> ## eBPF Agent Improvements

Reviewer: Just curious about why not using title case in titles. Is this a general policy in open-telemetry (or just in opentelemetry.io)?

> ## eBPF Agent Improvements

Reviewer 2: It's the style guide we follow for the website. We use the google developer documentation style guide and the kubernetes style guide + some custom rules: 

https://opentelemetry.io/docs/contributing/style-guide/

https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/#headings

> ## eBPF Agent Improvements

Reviewer: Thank you.
Found the using of title case is a DON'T in the second doc :+1:

---
title: The State of Profiling
linkTitle: Profiling state

> date: 2024-10-24

Reviewer 2: question on timing: we had the GC election announcement blog post today, so maybe we publish this one tomorrow?

```suggestion
date: 2024-10-25
```

cSpell:ignore: Baeyens Florian Geisendörfer Kalkanis Lehner Mathieu Rühsen
author: >-
  [Damien Mathieu](https://github.com/dmathieu) (Elastic), [Pablo
  Baeyens](https://github.com/mx-psi) (Datadog), [Felix
  Geisendörfer](https://github.com/felixge) (Datadog), [Christos
  Kalkanis](https://github.com/christos68k) (Elastic), [Morgan
  McLean](https://github.com/mtwo) (Splunk), [Florian
  Lehner](https://github.com/florianl) (Elastic), [Tim
  Rühsen](https://github.com/rockdaboot) (Elastic)
issue: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io/issues/5477
sig: Profiling SIG
---

A little over six months ago, OpenTelemetry announced
[support for the profiling signal](/blog/2024/profiling/). While the signal is
still in development and isn’t yet recommended for production use, the Profiling
SIG has made substantial progress on many fronts.

This post provides a summary of the progress the Profiling SIG has made over the
past six months.

> ## OTLP Improvements

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## OTLP improvements
```

[v0.112.0](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/releases/tag/v0.112.0),
the OpenTelemetry Collector is able to receive, process and export profiling
data, and has support for profile ingestion and export using OTLP.

You can try it out by enabling the `service.profilesSupport`
[feature gate](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/blob/main/featuregate/README.md#controlling-gates)
in your collector, followed by a configuration similar to the following, which
ingests and exports data using OTLP:

```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      grpc:
exporters:
  otlp:
    endpoint: 'localhost:4317'
service:
  pipelines:
    profiles:
      receivers: [otlp]
      exporters: [otlp]
```

While this feature can be used now on the Collector, we do not yet recommend
doing so in production: it is still under heavy development and is expected to
have breaking changes, such as the ones mentioned above with OTLP.

However, this support in the Collector means that any receiver, processor or
exporter of the Collector can now start adding profiles support, which we highly
encourage to do, as a way to allow a smoother integration in the future, as well

> as to find potential issues early. If you wish to report a bug or view the
> existing ones, you can

Reviewer 3: Maybe something like this is clearer?
```suggestion
as to find potential issues early. If you wish to report a bug or contribute on this effort, you can
```

---
title: The State of Profiling
linkTitle: Profiling state
date: 2024-10-24
cSpell:ignore: Baeyens Florian Geisendörfer Kalkanis Lehner Mathieu Rühsen
author: >-
  [Damien Mathieu](https://github.com/dmathieu) (Elastic), [Pablo
  Baeyens](https://github.com/mx-psi) (Datadog), [Felix
  Geisendörfer](https://github.com/felixge) (Datadog), [Christos
  Kalkanis](https://github.com/christos68k) (Elastic), [Morgan
  McLean](https://github.com/mtwo) (Splunk), [Florian
  Lehner](https://github.com/florianl) (Elastic), [Tim
  Rühsen](https://github.com/rockdaboot) (Elastic)

> draft: true

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
